Today's reading is taken from the book of Philippians, chapter four, verses eight and nine, and it's on page 1163 of the Brown Bibles.
Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is admirable.
If anything is excellent or praiseworthy,
Think about such things.
Whatever you have learned or received or heard from me or seen in me, put it into practice and the God of peace will be with you.
May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word.
If you could take out your sermon outlines for this morning.
This is a continuation of the sermon I began last Sunday.
Are we losing our minds?
Part two today,
And this whole theme that I've started a couple months ago was the whole concept of experiencing freedom in Christ.
And last week we looked at, just by way of review, if you look at your outline, we looked at when we trust in Jesus, we become new creations.
From the very moment we put our faith in trust in Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior, we become new creatures, even though we may not be aware of all the implications or what that means.
We go on in point number two that we looked at last week, but we still experience a struggle in our minds.
And this is something that every Christian experiences, even the great apostle Paul, considered by most to be the greatest Christian who ever lived.
And he talked about it in Romans chapter seven especially, this internal struggle that our very nature is made righteous in Christ.
We're new creatures.
And yet we still struggle because sin dwells in our flesh.
This force or propensity of sin dwells in our flesh and they're at war with each other.
Constantly, and the Bible talks about in our minds, what are we thinking?
And what are the principles and what are the values?
Are we thinking more about the nature we have in Christ or are we tempted to follow the world, to yield to temptation that sin that dwells in our flesh?
And these forces of evil that exist all around us.
So this struggle goes on constantly in the mind and the heart of every Christian.
Let's just begin with a prayer, then we'll start with point number three in your outline.
Okay, let's pray together.
Father God, we do thank you for the amazing gift of eternal life through faith in Jesus Christ, your Son.
Thank you, Father, that you sacrifice your only Son as the supreme demonstration
of how much you love us because you did that while we were still sinners.
And Father, thank you for your love and grace and mercy.
Thank you for the new life that we can experience in Christ, but we realize that there's an ongoing struggle, even as Christians, to live out this new life in Christ.
And Father, I pray that you'll help us to be open now to your word, to your spirit, most of all, to our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, that we might become more and more like him day by day.
It's the Father we commit this time to you in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Point number three in your outline is that Jesus and God's Word can help us win this battle for our minds.
We looked at this several weeks ago that when we talk about the Word of God, we're talking about the living Word of God, which is Jesus Christ Himself.
And we're talking about the written Word of God, which is the Scripture or the Bible.
And both are essential.
We learn more about Jesus.
We grow closer to Jesus through the written word, the scriptures, the Bible.
And that's why we need to saturate our minds as much as possible with the Word of God.
We can pull up Romans chapter 12, verses one and two.
Romans chapter 12, verse two in particular, it talks about the renewing of our minds.
This is talking to Christians.
So as Christians,
We need to have this process of the renewing of our minds going on for the rest of our lives here on earth.
Now, how do we get a renewed mind?
We get a renewed mind by studying and living out God's Word.
And it's tied in to Romans chapter 12 verse one, which we'll hopefully pull up here in a second.
Romans chapter 12 verses one and two.
Many have heard this passage before, but really it's important to understand that for Romans chapter 12 verse one,
Are we having problems?
Oh, I'm sorry.
I kept looking back there and thinking, it's not there.
Sorry about that.
Thanks, Josh.
I don't know how long it's been up there.
Romans chapter 12 verse 1.
Now you notice who this is written to.
The apostle Paul is writing to Christians, people who are already believers, because he says, therefore, I urge you, brothers, or in some versions of the NIV, that says brothers and sisters,
so that it doesn't just sound like he's talking to male Christians.
He's talking to all Christians, brothers and sisters.
And what is he saying?
He's saying, this is something we need to do even as Christians.
Now the reason why that's important is because some of you have been around a while, you know I've mentioned this before, but there is a teaching called Lordship Salvation that is still somewhat popular in some circles of Christians.
And personally, I don't believe in Lordship of Salvation primarily because of this verse.
In Lordship of Salvation, it basically says, you cannot be a true born again believer unless you've also dealt with the whole Lordship of Jesus Christ issue in your life as well.
So if Jesus, you're not living out the Lordship of Christ in your life, you're not a true born again Christian.
And so they make salvation and dedication all one and the same.
Now the reason why I don't believe that is, as I said, because Romans chapter 12 verse one, it's written to Christians.
These are Christians already, all right?
The apostle Paul, you know, he's pretty clear about who's a believer and who isn't.
And to brothers and sisters, now here's what Christians are supposed to do.
It says in view of God's mercy, meaning in view of the fact that we have experienced and received God's mercy and love and grace through faith in Jesus Christ.
Here's what we're supposed to do.
Offer your bodies as living sacrifices, holy and pleasing to God.
This is your spiritual act of worship.
Now, some people would call that an act of dedication.
It is presenting your life back to God saying, God, you saved me by your grace.
I didn't deserve it.
It was a totally free gift.
And now in response to your mercy, in response to your mercy, I'm gonna present my life to you for whatever you want to do with my life, whatever.
Now, some people have mistaken that as
If you say that before God, that means you're going into full-time vocational Christian ministry.
You're gonna be a minister, missionary, whatever.
That's a mistake.
That's not what the Apostle Paul's talking about.
Obviously, some people, God leads into vocational ministry like myself, missionaries, others who are serving and raising support.
But every single Christian, and they call those people clergy.
By the way, the word clergy never appears in the Bible.
This clergy and lay people, those are terms that never appear in the Bible.
And unfortunately that tradition has been built up over the years to make a distinction between really, really committed Christians who are clergy and the rest of Christians who just try to do what they can in their spare time.
That's a horrible distinction because the Bible never says that.
The Bible says there are Christians who have either presented themselves a living sacrifice and there are Christians who have not.
But they're all Christians.
There's still Christians, if they don't do this, there's still Christians, but the appeal by the apostle Paul, by God, is in view of God's mercy.
It's never, oh, if you don't present yourself a living sacrifice, you're gonna lose your salvation, or that proves that you're not really a believer to be with.
No, it's not a negative motivation, it's a positive one.
In view of God's mercy, in view of everything we've experienced in Christ, because he died for my sin and rose from the dead,
God gave me this wonderful free gift of new life in Christ.
In view of God's mercy, this is what I'm going to do because it's a reasonable response.
It's like saying, thank you, God.
Thank you, God.
You own my life anyway.
You own my life because you created me.
And plus you own my life because you redeemed me.
You paid the price for all my sin through the blood of Jesus Christ.
Okay, so this is what we do.
We present ourselves.
How do you do that?
It's a decision by faith.
It's the same kind of decision that people make when they trust in Christ.
You say, why do you trust in Christ?
By faith, you believe you trust that Jesus is God's son.
He died for our sin.
He rose from the dead.
That's a decision of salvation.
But this is a decision of dedication where a person who already knows they have faith in Jesus Christ now understands and they're gonna respond to God's mercy.
And so we call this a presentation.
This is a presentation.
And if you've never done this before as a Christian, you can do it today as we close in prayer, before we take communion.
You can pray this simple little prayer, just like you prayed a prayer of salvation.
You know, that you trust it in Christ, you believe that he's God's Son, he died for his sin, rose from the dead.
This is a simple prayer of God.
Maybe I never quite understood what you wanted from me in my Christian life.
But in view of your mercy, I present my entire life, my being to you.
You're the Lord of my life, whatever it is.
And God may lead into vocational ministry, you may become part of the quote unquote clergy, or you may be part of the laity, lay folks who are very committed, and that's one of the blessings of this church family that I've enjoyed for the past 10 years.
There's so many of you who understand and are living this out about the Lordship of Christ.
You understand that even though you're not paid in ministry like I am in missionaries or whatever, that God owns us.
God is the Lord of the universe.
And because of God's mercy in your life, you have presented yourself, whether you realize it or not, whether you had one moment in time, you have sort of grown into this understanding and you're living out the Lordship of Christ in your life.
And that's wonderful, that's wonderful.
And we need every Christian, and that's Paul's statement here, is that every Christian is to be like this.
Present yourself a living sacrifice.
So let's go on to verse number two.
Not only do we present ourselves as living sacrifices,
But secondly, it says, do not conform any longer to the pattern of this world.
Now he's talking about the world's values and influences, and actually in the original language, it's a process that's already going on.
It says, stop allowing the world to conform us to their principles.
It's something that's already going on.
It's all around us.
We're bombarded by the world's values 24-7.
not just in advertising, TV, movies, music, whatever, it's all around us, the world's values, constantly sort of trying to get our minds and our hearts to think differently from God's word and God's principles.
So it says stop allowing that to happen.
And this is a constant battle because again, the things we watch on TV, movies, music, whatever, the kind of friends we hang around, the values that we are bombarded with, are we actively, consciously,
by God's grace and God's wisdom.
Choosing, making choices where the influences are going to be more godly values and influences.
So we gotta present ourselves as a presentation.
There's a separation from the world's values.
And this is, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind.
And transformation is something I've discussed before.
It's a beautiful word in the original Greek.
It's the same word in the Greek word that we get our English word, metamorphosis.
Metamorphosis.
And everybody knows what metamorphosis is, right?
You know, the caterpillar spins a cocoon, spends some time in there and comes out looking like a totally different creature.
You know, you go in and look like a worm, you come out like a butterfly or a moth or whatever with wings, you're flying.
And it's like, wow.
But we know because of our scientific understanding and, you know, biology and things that, you know, that's the same creature.
That's the same creature that looked like a worm, but it went into metamorphosis and came out looking totally different.
Now that's what happens to every one of us as Christians.
When we come to faith in Christ, we're like that war.
We're like that caterpillar.
Okay?
And the rest of our lives who are on earth, we're in the cocoon.
And we're going through a process of metamorphosis.
We're from the inside out.
The new nature in Christ is now becoming more and more evident and more on display externally.
Through our actions, our activities, our attitudes, our thoughts, everything about us is becoming more and more like Jesus Christ.
That's a process of transformation.
And how does that happen by the renewing of your mind?
And as I said earlier, how do we get a renewed mind?
What feeds a renewed mind is the study and the living out of God's Word.
The more we study and live out the Word of God.
Notice I didn't say just study because as I've been saying for 10 years, we got too many Christians who have big heads, meaning they got a lot of head knowledge of the Word of God and very little life
knowledge of the Word of God.
The more we read and study the Word of God, the more we should become like Jesus Christ.
The person who knows the most about the Bible should be the most humble, gracious, loving, encouraging person just like Jesus.
Not a person who's arrogant, not a person who's self-righteous, not a person who goes around judging other people, which happens if you have a lot of head knowledge without life knowledge.
I know for a fact because that's pretty much
the way I was the first five, 10 years out of seminary.
First five, 10 years out of seminary.
I don't know how many of you would have liked that version of Pastor Lewis, seriously.
Because I look back on those days, and you know, some of my sermons, some churches I were involved with, like here, they record all the sermons, and they had them on cassette tapes.
This is way back, all right, the Dark Ages.
They had cassette tapes.
And sometimes I feel like going back to a church and say, would you do me a favor and let's have a bonfire someday.
Because some of those tapes are embarrassing.
Because it wasn't just preaching and teaching.
You say, well, did you say anything that was contrary to the Bible?
Not really.
I don't think so.
The content was very biblical.
The content was pure.
What was the real problem, though?
What was attitude?
and the manner in which I was speaking.
Sometimes I'd be screaming, screaming at the audience.
And you know, I know this sounds really weird, some of you maybe understand this, but there are some churches where they specialize in that kind of preaching, and it actually attracts a certain kind of person.
A certain kind of person that goes to church on Sundays, expecting somebody to be screaming at them about how they need to shape up and become a better, and that's what they're looking for.
He's thinking, wow.
That's an interesting kind of church, but they're all over the place.
And they don't understand that there's truth and grace.
And that Jesus Christ was full of both, truth and love.
And that is the epitome of Christ-likeness.
It's not one or the other.
It's the truth of God in the grace and the love of God in one person.
And that's what it means to become more and more like Jesus Christ, to grow in maturity.
Okay, so we saturate our lives with the word of God, and we study, we live it out.
The renewing of our mind happens with presentation, separation, transformation, and this is how we live out the Christian life, and this is how we can win the battles that go on in our minds every day of our lives.
Capital way, we must focus our minds more on positive things that honor God, positive things that honor God.
Philippians chapter four, verses eight and nine, that were read earlier for us.
Many of you have heard that passage before, but it's so important.
What do we focus on?
What are we focusing our lives and our hearts and our lives on?
And I know all of us, you know, we stay in touch with the news, which is important.
I'm not pretending that Christians should stick their head in the sand and just only read the Bible.
You know, don't read the newspaper, don't listen to the news, whatever.
But I'm just suggesting, and I hope most of you understand this, that when we listen to the news, no matter what form it is, no matter what the source is, it just tends to be very negative.
It just has to be very negative.
And as a matter of fact, I'll give you one simple example.
And I don't want to belabor this point because obviously there's a lot of debate going on.
But how many of you, if I asked for a show of hands, how many of you would believe that school shootings over the last 30 years has actually been declining rather than increasing over the last 30 years?
How many of you would say, yeah, yeah, that's my understanding?
Go home and do a Google search sometime.
And just Google and have school shootings been increasing over the past 30 years.
And you will see a number of web links that will lead you to research and studies.
The statistics have been done.
One of the studies was done right over here at UC Davis, as a matter of fact.
And it shows clearly that school shootings are not an epidemic on the rise.
They are actually declining over the last 30 years.
Now, who would have believed that?
And why is it that the general public would say, that's ridiculous.
I mean, that's absurd because the media, this is not necessarily wrong.
Obviously we want to know what's happening around the country.
And obviously even one shooting is too many.
So we have to be concerned about these issues.
But it's not an epidemic.
It is not increasing.
It's actually decreasing.
So what's increasing, obviously, is the coverage
and social media, so that when something like that happens, man, it just blows up all over the world, not just our country.
And so, you know, the general tendency is for people to think, man, you know, it's like happening every other week.
Well, do the research, okay?
And so the thing is, what I'm saying is, is that if we just continue to saturate our lives, our hearts, our minds from certain sources, it's just gonna be much more negative than positive.
It really is.
So let's have a balance, let's be informed, but let's remember as Christians, what am I saturating my mind and heart and my life with more?
Is it stuff from just the news or is it really from the Word of God, the Scripture?
And am I coming in touch and connection with the living Word, which is Jesus Christ himself?
All right, so I just toss it out and I, you know,
I may get some emails on that.
That's fine.
But do it.
Check it out.
Because if I'm wrong on that, let me know.
Because I just checked the number of those websites and it looked pretty clear.
But that's the understanding that I have.
Look for positive stories.
If you Google in search like positive news stories, there are a number of web links that go to sources that
You know, once in a while you hear things on major news stories that's kind of positive, kind of nice, and you think, wow, that was a nice story.
Wouldn't it be nice to hear some more of those kinds of stories?
Like, I know a number of you heard the story right this last week.
Apparently, there was a group of young football players from Idaho, and they were traveling back to Idaho after doing a tournament or something here in California.
And there was a car accident that they came across.
An SUV or whatever had flipped over, and the older couple inside were trapped.
And so they got out and the coach instructed them, they all worked together and they actually turned this SUV up and flipped it over so they could rescue these two people.
Wonderful story.
You know, these kids were like 13 and under and they're all working together to lift this car up.
How many of you heard that story, by the way?
Just raise your hands.
Okay, a smattering, okay.
Yeah, because probably didn't get major coverage.
That wasn't a lead story on the news programs or whatever.
But if you do a Google search on positive news stories, then you might see that one.
But it's just an example of what are we feeding our minds, our hearts, what are our lives saturated with?
So focus on positive things.
Obviously, the God's word, the scripture is of utmost importance.
As a matter of fact, I just want to read a quick quote.
This little insert in your bulletins, this appears usually the first Sunday of the month.
called Church Around the World.
Look on the back.
Just go ahead and take it out.
And look on the back.
And there's a little article about Billy Graham Quotes.
Billy Graham went home to be with the Lord about a month or so ago.
He says, Billy Graham Quotes that helped shape world Christianity.
And look over on the far right column there.
He says, on Bible reading, the very practice of reading the Bible will have a purifying effect upon your mind and heart.
Let nothing take
the place of this daily exercise.
It's from Billy Graham.
Couldn't agree more.
So if you're not into that habit, I want to encourage you.
All of us need some encouragement, reading the Bible, living it out.
That's why we have four different Bible fellowship groups here at the church.
The Monday night group that Stan has been leading for a number of years, open to men and women, 7 to 8.30 p.m. Tuesday night for men, same thing.
I lead that one Wednesday night.
The Women's Bible Study, May and Adele lead that group.
And then the Monthly Bible Study group.
Anybody's welcome to join any of these groups.
It's a great time to be able to share and learn together because we all need that kind of encouragement and that kind of influence.
Capital B, in your outline, what are some resources that could help us, as I mentioned, the bio study groups.
We're extending worship services.
I trust that when we come to worship service on Sundays, it's a time of encouragement.
We learn some things from the Word of God.
But it's also a time when all of us kind of get our minds and our hearts tuned in on what's really important in life because of all the various distractions that we all live with.
And as I mentioned, the NIV Live
I know not everybody even has CD players anymore.
Maybe that's why they were clearing these out because they retailed for $125.
They were on sale for $15.
79 CDs, if you do have a CD player, or I understand there's some way on your computer to change a CD to a MP3 file, is that possible?
Some of you are more high tech.
Okay, so you can take a CD, you can change it to a MP3 file, and then if you don't have a CD player in your car but you have
You know, you can play MP3s, then you can do that.
I have an open set, and I was, a couple weeks ago, I was handing those out to people, so you could at least try one out.
If you're interested, if you don't have one yet, see me after church, I'll be more happy to give you one or two of the CDs.
There's 79 CDs per set.
Each set's only $15.
Okay, so starting next week, I'm gonna talk about some specific
examples of where the values for the world bombards us with, you know, affects the way we think and what does God's word really say about it?
Next week, because it's the Sunday School Promotion Day, the sermon time will be much shorter, but I will have an object lesson and hopefully it'll be interesting for the kids as well.
But this kind of principle, how do we really think and what is shaping our thoughts and our values on a day-to-day basis?
Okay, as we transition to prepare for communion,
Let me just read some verses from 1 Corinthians chapter 11.
And just a reminder, what is communion?
Communion is a tradition, it's a practice that Jesus Christ himself instituted for his followers.
And the bread, the juice, they represent the body and blood of Jesus Christ.
And so communion, the Lord's table, is for all who have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ.
And when we take the bread and the juice together, it's a time to remember.
And that's the key word with communion.
It's a time of remembrance, to remember what?
To remember who Jesus is, what He has done for us, and how much He means to us on a daily basis.
Okay?
Part 8 communion here at CCC is we form two lines down the center aisle, and just take your time at the table as individuals or small groups or whatever you'd like.
Just spend a moment and just a moment of meditation prayer.
Take the bread, dip it into the juice, partake right there, and then return to your seats using the outer aisles.
Okay, let me read these verses from 1 Corinthians 11.
For I received from the Lord what I also pass on to you.
The Lord Jesus on the night he was betrayed took bread.
And when he had given thanks he broke it and said, this is my body which is for you.
Do this in remembrance of me.
In the same way after supper he took the cup saying, this cup is the new covenant in my blood.
Do this whenever you drink it in remembrance of me.
For whenever you eat this bread and drink this cup,
you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.
Okay, let's close in prayer.
Let's pray.
Father God, thanks again for who you are.
You are the great God of the universe, the God who created everything that exists.
And Father, thank you that you are a God who is holy, infinitely holy and righteous, and yet also infinitely loving and gracious and merciful.
And you sent your only son, Jesus Christ
to satisfy all of your attributes, all of your holiness, as well as your love and mercy, because he died to pay the penalty for all of our sin as a supreme demonstration and expression of how great your love is.
And Father, I thank you that every one of us here today who has come to personal faith and trust in you can remember in a very significant way
all that Jesus has done for us.
And that would move us to continue to live our lives in a manner which are pleasing and honoring to you.
And if there's anybody here who's not sure if they've ever trusted in Christ, perhaps right now in this moment between just them and you, in your own hearts, they would put their faith and trust in you and partake of communion for the first time as a believer in Jesus Christ.
It's a follow.
We thank you for the new life you've given us.
We thank you for this particular tradition that you have established
that we can, in a tangible way, just remember all that Jesus has done for us.
So Father, we thank you in Jesus' name.
Amen.